
Welcome to my second CHIP48 game ever. This time it uses the new features 
(i.e. scrolling and full-screen graphics) that were added in SUPER-CHIP V1.1.

The game
--------
Due to lack of imagination, I did a very wellknown game. Alien, one of the 
first games I played in the beginning of the C=64 era. It is a rather simple
shoot'em up game and the story behind the game is as follows: Unfriendly
(most aliens are) aliens have invaded the earth and the only one who can stop 
them are you. To assist you in your battle, the russian experts have 
developed a new powerful (and leathal) weapon, the blaster. But, as you
known, the Rubel isn't what it used to be and therefore, the scientists could 
only afford the version with limited firecapacity. You can only have one shot 
in the air at the same time. And what's even worse: the aliens have gotten 
hold of the very same weapon. And they're continually making their shields 
stronger and stronger. Stop them before they reach mother earth!

How to start the game
---------------------
Upload the game to your HP48-series calulcator via the serial cable. Make 
sure the you also have got S-CHIP V1.1 somewhere in your machine (otherwise 
you'll have to upload that too). Press the Alien menu-key and a string will 
appear in the first level of the stack (the only thing readable is my name). 
Then press the S-Chip menu-key and the game will begin. See next section for 
further description.

The controls
------------
KEY             DESCRIPTION

Enter           Restart the game
Backspace       Quit game (return to calculating, who needs that?!)
+/-             Toggle sound on/off (useful when teacher is near you)
9               Stear your blaster left
/               Stear your blaster right
0               Fire (you also use this key to begin playing)

Copyrights
----------
CHIP48 V2.25 (C) Andreas Gustafsson, Finland
S-CHIP V1.1 (C) Erik Bryntse, Sweden
ALIEN V1.0 (C) Jonas Lindstedt, Sweden

This game is released as Public Domain via Internet and various Bulletin
Board Systems. You may copy this program for non-profit purposes. I don't 
take any responsibility for any damage caused by this program, but please 
write me a letter if you find any bugs or have suggestions how to make this a 
better game. (I know it's a bit slow, but so am I.)
                                                
Enjoy!!

Jonas Lindstedt
Department of Real Time Computer Systems
Malardalens University, Vasteras, Sweden
-------------------------------------------
E-mail:         ltd92jlt@martin.mdh.se 
                 or              
                akcs.jonasl@hpcvbbs.cv.hp.com

Address:        Jonas Lindstedt
                Bergmastarv. 15
                S-724 78  VASTERAS
                Sweden

