
Version 2.1 of H. Piper! for SUPER-CHIP follows below.

DISCLAIMER: Since CHIP makes use of undocumented features
of the HP48SX, anything can happen: loss of data, meltdown,
etc. Therefore, I take no responsibility for any damage
whatsoever that occurs.

****************  H. Piper!  **********************

OBJECT:
-------
You are presented with a 6 row, 10 column grid and
a preview panel of 5 pipes. A starting pipe will be
placed on the grid and will in a few seconds start
leaking.  The object is to lay pipes on the grid to
contain the leak as long as you can.  If the water
flows onto an empty grid site, onto the side of another
pipe or border, that plumbing job is finished.  If you
did well enough, you may get another job.  Otherwise
the game is over.

STARTING THE GAME:
-----------------
Make sure you have the SCHIP program on the calculator.
Press HPIPER to recall the program string to the stack.
Then press SCHIP to start the game.

HOW TO PLAY:
------------
On the bottom and right borders of the grid are grid
pointers.  The bottom pointer can be moved left with
the (1) key and right with the (2) key.  The side
pointer can be moved up with the (9) key and down with
the (6) key. (Note: this is identical to the movement
keys for Syzygy by Roy Trevino)  A crosshair is present
on the grid sites the two paddles point to.

Using the pointers, chose a grid site to place a pipe.
The pipe to be placed is the one at the bottom of
the preview column. Once a site is chosen, press the
(7) or (4) key to place the pipe there.  You can replace
a pipe already at the grid site with a penalty of one
point.  You cannot replace a pipe that the water has
already flown through.  Trying to do this will make
you lose the pipe you were trying to place and also
penalize you one point.

The two buttons used to place pipe differ in the way
that the next pipe added at the top of the queue.
Pressing (7) will choose a random new pipe to place
at the top of the preview column and push the others
down the queue.  Pressing (4) will use the pipe
currently displayed to the right of the grid as the
new pipe to be placed at the top of the preview
column.  The pipes on the right cycle through all
types in a set manner.

When you have placed all the pipe you wish to for
a particular job, you can press the (+) key to make
the water flow *FAST*.  You can still lay pipe if
you realize you made a mistake, but hurry!

   KEY SUMMARY:     Left     (1)
                    Right    (2)
                    Up       (9)
                    Down     (6)
                    Place    (7)  random
                    Place    (4)  non-random
                    Fast     (+)

Once a job is over, press (SPACE) to continue.

There are twenty levels with increasing water flow speed.
Level 20's speed is the same as that for *FAST*. If
you manage to get through level 20, it repeats at
that level till you fail.  The starting speed with
which the flow comes out of the initial pipe is slower
than the usual flow, however this speed increases in
level also. 

SCORING:
--------
You receive 3 points for every pipe the water flows
through.  For the crossed pipes, flowing through
them in both directions gives you 6 points.
You are penalized 1 point for replacing or
trying to replace a pipe already on the grid.

The current job score is shown in upper right corner.
The score can not go negative, so if the score is
zero, you can replace pipes without penalty.

Once a job is over, the program checks to see if
every grid site was flown through. If so you
earn a 100 point bonus. The score earned is added to
the grand total and displayed on the screen shown
after (SPACE) is pressed. 

If the game is over, the word OVER will be displayed
above the score and the (SPACE) key can be pressed
to exit. The total score will be written to user 
flags so that the user lang program SCORE can
put the score on the stack. If over does not appear,
press (SPACE) to go on to the next job.
The points needed to go to the next job are
obtained by the following formula:

    Points needed = 100 - (41 - 2 * level)

therefore, you need 63 points to go to job 2
                    65 points to go to job 3
                    ...
                    99 points to go to job 20,21,....

The points needed for a level are shown below the
bottom right corner of a grid.  Note that this
does not mean that play ends once that score
is achieved.  That score is only a minimum needed
to have the opportunity to continue on another job.

RESUME:
-------
Between jobs (i.e. while at the dripping faucet wait
screen) you can press the decimal (.) key to leave
the game and go to the regular calculator mode.  The
total score and level you achieved will be stored in
the user flags so that next time you start the game,
you will resume the game as you left it.  Do not
run the SCORE program or you will lose the resumable
state.

If somehow the user flags get messed up by other
programs you run after pausing, you can set them
using the HPSET program.  Put the desired score
on level 2 and the game level you just completed
on level 1. Once you get really good at the game,
you can use this to bypass the first few really
slow screens. For example, to start off on level 9,
enter 0 then 8 and run HPSET. When you start the
game, you will begin at level 10.

RANDOMNESS:
----------
The starting pipe for the first level is still 
placed randomly.  For subsequent levels, however,
the starting pipe is located on the grid site
you "leaked" on with the starting direction opposite
of that you entered.  If you leaked onto the border,
then the starting pipe is placed on the site you
leaked from.

The first five pipes in the queue are selected randomly.

OTHER REMARKS:
-------------
-- The [ENTER] key will now work to restart
   the game as if it was just run for the first time.
-- The movement keys can now be held down to
   move the crosshair long distances.
-- Corner pieces are guaranteed for the first four
   pipes to get out of sticky situations with
   the starting pipe placement.

TROUBLE SHOOTING:
----------------
Some people have reported assorted problems with
getting the program to work.  For those who can't get
SCHIP to work with H. Piper, try turning off all alarms
and date/clock displays.  If you have Chipper,
you might try compiling the source code yourself and
see if you can get it to run from there.  


DEVELOPMENT NOTES:
-----------------
Pipe Graphics --
   As you will probably notice, a lack of
   color is a big problem in trying to sort
   out what you have laid out.  Having 8x8
   pipe bitmaps was a cornerstone of my
   design so enlarging them for better
   resolution would be difficult and probably
   restrict the grid size unduly.

Randomness    --
   Just how random is S-CHIP's random generator?
   You will probably notice that the cross pipe
   comes up more often than the others. True. It
   is twice as likely to be chosen than any of
   the others.  Another design fluke. However,
   being the one true symmetrical piece, it
   will be the most useful to get often.

Program Size  --
   I've put a semi-rigid limit of 2K on the size
   of the program.  Any improvement that will put it over
   that barrier just won't be worth it. (I will of course
   probably eat these words later.)

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:
----------------
H. Piper! was written using the excellent compiler Chipper.
I will make the source available if there is any interest.
Be forewarned.  I am a pretty sloppy coder.  There is
much room for improvement in efficiency.

   CHIP-48 is (C) Copyright 1990 Andreas Gustafsson.
            - Many, many thanks to the one who started it all.

   Chipper is (C) Copyright 1990 Christian Egeberg.
            - It is amazing that with such a great compiler
              as this, there are so few CHIP games out there.

   SUPER-CHIP is (C) Copyright 1991 Erik Bryntse
            - Never be satisfied with limitation.

Happy plumbing!




