							Aarhus, DK
							16/9-92


SpaceFight2091  - The doc

Ok, here's a little Super-Chip game for all you mad S-Chip-freaks out there!




PURPOSE:

The purpose of the game is.... TO WIN (say what?)
  In order to complete this quite difficult task your body (yes only your body
and not your mind (this remark shows that I believe that the body merely serves
as a tool for the brain)) have been warped through 87 different time-warps
due to some foolish scientists who didn't know what they were doing. This
resulted in a rather big waste of resources but that's of course another story.
When you finally arrive you can't recognize anything and two weird-looking
dudes tell you that this is the year 2091!!! Frightening eh?
  You are of course not very happy about your situation partly because you only
have 25 dollars in your wallet and the prizes have gone up about 30000% but
mainly because IBM and the fucking PC clones have completely taken over all of
the computer-market resulting in the Amiga's death!
  In a Holo-BiDirectional-FullDuplex-TV-store you see a newsflash concerning
some evil aliens about to invade the good ol' EARTH. Scientists think that they
are being drawn towards the Earth due to the massive pollution the PC's cause.
However if people had bought Amiga's instead (which don't pollute) they would
have been no aliens now!
  This is your call! You sneak into a Warp-Transporter without a ticket and you
end up at NASA where you get to talk to the boss and you tell him : "OK you
listen to me you scumbag! I wanna get into a spacecraft, get up there and KICK
SOME ALIEN BUTT!". "But why?" the boss says. "Personal motives" you answer. If
you can save the Amigas existence you're ready to do anything!
  You get the newest spacecraft (ZX-81) and you take off!!! TO SAVE THE AMIGA!
  Battle you way through the 6 (increasingly harder) levels!!!




CONTROLLING THE ZX-81

  Though being very advanced the ZX-81 is extremely easy to control:

  HexPad    Amiga    HP    Function

    3         /      9      LEFT
    C         *      /      RIGHT
    A         1      0      FIRE




ABOUT THE GAME

  It was written because I wanted to test my newly written S-Chip assembler for
the Amiga. It only took me 2 days to make this game (I'm so proud of myself!).
I know that some of the code could have been programmed smarter (or smaller!)
but then again it was my first attempt so get off my back!

  SourceSize: about 30 k
  AsmSize:    2840 bytes
  783 bytes of graphics and 200 bytes of buffers, reducing the codesize to
  1857 bytes

Contact me for anything concerning CHIP like ideas for more games...

Slammer
Carsten Soerensen
Kronhjortevej 4
DK-8270  Hoejbjerg
Denmark

E-Mail: u920659@daimi.aau.dk

