SYZYGY v0.1

One of the first games I remember playing on a computer was 
called "syzygy" on a now ancient TRS-80 Model 1.  It has since
appeared on other computers under various names.  Why it was
called syzygy, I have no idea (consult Websters).  However, since
the HP48SX has approximately the same memory, graphics and cpu
power as my TRS-80 did (something like 16kB, 128x64, and a 1.2Mhz Z80),
I thought it would be amusing to play it again.  Now, approximately
to my recollection, and with many apologies to the original author,
here is a CHIP48 version of SYZYGY.  Enough drivel.

The object of the game is to seek out "targets".  You do this with
your syzygy.  Initially small, the syzygy will grow by some amount
each time a target is hit.  Eventually, your syzygy will
be so long as to make tougher and tougher to get any points (and easier
and easier to get killed).  Confused?  Just try it.

Anyways, the syzygy is not allowed to run into anything except targets.
It cannot run into the screen border (if present), or itself (this 
includes backing into itself).  Fast and immediate death will result.
Don't worry if you die quickly a few times.  The keys take a few 
minutes to get used to.

To start:     +      start/restart game with border
              -      start/restart borderless game
       
To play:      9      up
              6      down
              1      left
              2      right

[Hint for frustrated beginners: hold left hand on 1 & 2, and right hand on
 6 & 9 keys.  Alternate between left hand, right hand, left hand...  -jkh-]


Fine print (borrowed from Andreas Gustafsson, author of CHIP-48):

  SYZYGY is (c) copyright 1990 by Roy Trevino (RTT)

  Noncommercial distribution allowed, provided that this
  copyright message is preserved, and any modified versions
  are clearly marked as such.

  SYZYGY, via CHIP-48, makes use of undocumented low-level features
  of the HP48SX calculator, and may or may not cause loss of data,
  excessive battery drainage, and/or damage to the calcultor
  hardware.  The Author takes no responsibility whatsoever for
  any damage caused by the use of this program.
  
  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
  PURPOSE.

Roy

  --------------------------------------------------------------
  Roy Trevino                                        Intel Corp.
  E-mail: rtrevino@sedona.intel.com          Tel: (602) 554 2816
  UUCP:  decwrl!apple!oliveb!orc!inews!rtrevino@sedona.intel.com
