4. VIP BLACKJACK

VIP Blackjack (also known as Twenty-One) follows standard Blackjack rules.  The VIP
computer is the dealer.  Both the dealer and player try to get cards that add up to
"21".  Each number card counts its face value; Ten, Jack, Queen and King count 10;
and Aces count as either one or eleven.  A hand containing an Ace that counts as
eleven and does not cause the total to exceed 21, is a "soft" hand.  All other hands
are "hard".

The VIP Blackjack dealer draws on soft 17, hard 16 or less.  The dealer deals from
two standard decks.  Before dealing a new hand, if the number of cards in the
combined decks is less than 22, the dealer automatically shuffles the cards.  Pair
splitting and insurance are not allowed.  All winning hands pay 1 to 1, except
blackjack, which pays 2 to 1.

The game ends either when the player has lost his stake, or when he breaks 999.

How to play VIP Blackjack (One-Player)

1. Load the CHIP-8 interpretor at 0000-01FF
   and the game starting at 0200.

2. Turn RUN switch on.

3. Your stakes will appear at the bottom right corner of your TV screen.

4. Whenever "CUT" appears on the screen, the dealer will shuffle the cards and
   wait for you to cut.  Press key 0 to continue play.

5. Whenever "BET" appears on the screen, you enter you single-digit bet by pressing
   key 1 through 9,  press key 0 to enter a bet of 10.  Your bet will be displayed
   slightly above and to the left of your stakes.

6. After all bets are entered, two cards will be dealt to you and the dealer.  The
   dealer's cards are on the top of the screen.  One of the dealer's cards will be
   face down (hole card).

7. If the dealer has a natural (21) and you do not, you lose your bet.  If you also
   have a natural, you get your bet back and a "T" for tie appears in the bet position.

8. If the dealer does not have a natural and you do, you get three times your bet back,
   a "W" for win appears in the bet position.

9. When neither you nor the dealer has a natural, the word "HIT" will appear on your
   screen.  You must either stand, hit or double down.
     It is your turn when your bet flashes.
     -You Stand (indicating you have enough cards) by pressing key 0
     -You Hit (indicating you want another card) by pressing key 1
     You can draw up to 5 additional cards for a maximum of 7 cards in your hand.
     -You Double Down (indicating you want one more card and double your bet) by
      pressing key 2.  Your bet will change on the screen.
   You keep your turn after Hitting if the card count is 21 or less.  You give up
   your turn after Standing, Doubling Down or Busting (going over 21).

10. After you have finished your turn, the dealer turns up his hole (down) card.
    If you are still in the game, the dealer draws cards to his hand whenever it
    adds up to soft 17 or hard 16, or less.

11. If the dealer goes over 21, you win unless you already busted.  If you win, a "W"
    appears in the bet positions and you receive twice your bet.  IF you tie, the dealer
    (push),  a "T" appears and you get your bet back.  If your hand is less than the
    dealer's, you lose your bet.
