2. VIP Message Center
The VIP MESSAGE CENTER program permits you to record in the computer memory and display
letters, numbers and special characters on teh TV.  The characters saved in the computer
memory are recalled for continuous repetitive display of a message on the TV screen.
You can choose two types of display formats.  The typewriter format lets you fill the
entire screen; the ticker tape format shows a line of characters in motion across the
screen. This latter format is useful for words longer than ten characters.

The typewriter display is arranged into five lines of ten characters per line.  The ticker
tape display shows a line of ten characters.  Up to 256 different characters and display
commands can be saved in the computer memory.  This corresponds to about three completely filled TV screens.  There are 56 characters you can select: 0-9, A-Z, space, comma, box, period, colon, ellipsis, exclamation point, question mark, hyphen, dollar sign, cent sign, percent sign, single quote, double quote, plus sign, minus sign, times sign, division sign, slash, and equal sign.

The keyboard controls the selection of a character and starting or stopping the message display.  The keyboard also provides the following display commands:  the time to delay before displaying more parts of a message, clearing the screen, spacing between characters, and begining a new line.

Should you make a mistake entering a character, you can correct it.  Yo go through the message stopping where you made your error.  You then overwrite the message with the intended character(s).

How to use VIP Message Center

1. Load the CHIP-8 interpreter at 0000-01FF and the game starting at 0200.

2. Turn RUN switch on.

3. Select type of display:
   Key 1 selects the typewriter format and
   saves the message characters in the computer memory
   Key 2 selects the ticker tapeformat and
   saves the message characters in the computer memory

4. A flashing character indicates teh display position where a character
   will go when selected.  The flashing character will not appear in the message
   unless it is saved.

5. Key 1 selects the next character in the character sequence (see instruction 11)
   to the left of the flashing character.

   Key 3 selects the next character in the character sequence to the right of the
   flashing character.  Holding down either 1 or 3 changes the character continuously.

   Key 2 saves the flashing character in memory.

   Key 6 stores a time delay corresponding to how long you hold this key down.  The
   time may be as brief as a quarter of a second.

   Key 7 clears the screen and stores a "clear screen" command.

   Key 8 stores a space character and positions for the next character.

   Key 9 starts a new line (typewriter format only) and stores this command.

   Key 4 is used to step through the message to allow editing.

   Key 5 stops the display at a character.

6. When you reach the end of the line (10 characters) in typewriter format no characer
   will flash.  You must press key 9 to start a new line.

7. You can select the space character using keys 1 or 3.  See character sequence in
   instruction 11.

8  Key 2 is useful for skipping over characters when you are correcting a message.
   Care must be exercised so that you do not overwrite a stored command (such as a
   new line) unintentionally.

10 You can change the time for the ticker tape movement by altering location 04B7.
   Increase this value to increase delay (units of 60th of a second).

11 The character sequence is:
   @0123456789ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ .,;:~!-$c%?"

   Note: @=SQUARE,
         There is one <space> between Z and .
         ~=Ellipsis
         c=Cents


